# DiceRoller
Needed a virtual Dice rolling program for DnD. Both my players and I felt like making my own would allow me control of needed features as they arose.  

This small project originated as a simple project for learning Java, but it has since been changed to use the Scanner utility to accept input continuously until an invalid input is detected or if 'stop' is input at the beginning. The program prompts users to enter 'stop' to quit or enter a set of die to roll, providing the format for valid input. It accepts this input for how many dice to roll and how many faces they have in the format of '##d###' by using 'd' as a delimiter to distinguish the integers on either side. It uses the number of dice to roll to set the upper bound on a for loop that creates a die object, adds up the total from the value of each die object, and prints each value. It then prints the sum of all rolls beneath them, identified by 'Total:.' It sends the number of faces to a class file that uses the number to generate random values using the math.random() function. This function generates a pseudorandom number between 1 and 0 and uses multiplication to format it to the required number range. It is then cast to an integer variable to truncate decimal data that might follow and is incremented by 1. The incrementing at the end is to ensure that the numbers begin at 1 and can reach the number of faces, instead of zero to 19 in the case of a twenty-sided die. It has an extra step as well and is set to detect if a d100 is rolled. If and when it detects this die is rolled, it rolls it as though it were a ten-sided die but multiplies the value by 10. This way the RNG is able to act like a physical d100 (which is just a ten-sided die with larger number increments.) After generating the values, the die class passes them back to the main file to be printed out and added together into the total. After a roll is completed, the program prompts the user to enter another or type 'stop' to exit the program. The only upper limit to how many dice to roll or the values on them is that the total values must fit inside the int variable type. This limit is in place due to there being no percieved reason to need that many dice for the purposes this program is meant for.  'Stop' detection is simply done by parsing the input to a string and determining if it matches the word, the program is also set to ignore capitalization in the word. This gives more leniency to the user so that they can better avoid invalid input errors. 

Currently, this is the extent of the project's functions. There is a bug that leads to a crash if invalid input is detected or 'stop' is input at the wrong time. This would be easy to fix with catches and extra input validation, but as this is a personal project and I am the only person currently using it, I do not have need of this currently. Integration with VOIP software, such as a discord bot, is planned eventually. Though that will wait on extra layers of RNG further randomizing the results and conversion to JavaScript. 
